Odin
Foundations Course
Setting Up Git

Introduction

GitHub Email Settings

Step 2.2: Setup Git

git config --global user.email "123456789+odin@users.noreply.github.com" 
(use quotation marks)

To enable colorful output with git, type
git config --global color.ui auto

You’ll also likely want to set your default branch reconciliation behavior to merging. 
git config --global pull.rebase false

To verify working properly, verify output matches your name and email address.
git config --get user.name
git config --get user.email

macOS Users: Run these two commands to tell git to ignore .DS_Store files, which are automatically created when you use Finder to look into a folder.
echo .DS_Store >> ~/.gitignore_global
git config --global core.excludesfile ~/.gitignore_global

Step 2.3: Create an SSH Key

If your email address is odin@theodinproject.com type 
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C odin@theodinproject.com.
    When it prompts you for a location to save the generated key, just push Enter.
    Next, it will ask you for a password; enter one if you wish, but it’s not required.

Step 2.4: Link Your SSH Key with GitHub
Log into GitHub and click on your profile picture in the top right corner. Then, click on Settings in the drop-down menu. Next, on the left-hand side, click SSH and GPG keys. Then, click the green button in the top right corner that says New SSH Key. Name your key something that is descriptive enough for you to remember where it came from. Leave this window open while you do the next steps. Now you need to copy your public SSH key. To do this, we’re going to use a command called cat to read the file to the console. (Note that the .pub file extension is important in this case.)
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub

Highlight and copy the output, which starts with ssh-ed25519 and ends with your email address. Now, go back to GitHub in your browser window and paste the key you copied into the key field. Keep the key type as Authentication Key and then, click Add SSH key.You’ve successfully added your SSH key!
